I think that
uh we have for several thousand years
been on a journey which has been
potentiating
individuality and and all the
patriarchal
religions the the whole masculine Focus
has been as it were a decided
potentiation of the individual even to
the point of of asserting the survival
of the
Soul uh for the reward you know the Soul
lives forever and ever in Heaven or Hell
based upon the quality of choices of the
that the individual makes it's an
enormous potentiation of
individuals at the great cost of course
of tearing the individual free of the
Matrix of life now we seem to be moving
into a new Direction where we're
recontextualizing the stupendous
accomplishment of the fully empowered
individual we're recontextualizing that
individual Within The subtler Matrix of
what Buddhism sometimes call the Buddha
WB or the you know the Matrix
Consciousness The Source
Consciousness uh so that what was
previously an unconscious relationship
of embeddedness is now becoming a
conscious relationship of
embed now the ego can get frightened
because the ego thinking that its
individuality requires
separation and unchanging self and
that's usually the two concepts that go
along with self is that the self has to
be separate and it's
unchanging neither of those are really
true that you there is an actual higher
form of individuality that emerges and
is compatible
with the condition of interpenetration
not separability and the condition of
Perpetual change not unchanging and I I
think that's really what Buddhism wanted
to deny when it went with the option of
anat no self what it was fundamentally
denying
was separability and unchanging self it
rejected those in lie of a concept of
self which is dynamic and is
interpenetrating and that I think is
where we are moving
evolutionarily so that we have an
individuality of a true self-reflective
Consciousness potentiated over hundreds
and thousands of incarnations
increasingly potentiated self-directive
self- emergence self-learning
self-creating but contextualized within
a matrix that supports and is nourished
by that
process it truly does support it it is
it is the mother Matrix which births
this individual genius and it is
nourished by the Learning of the individ
ual
genius and that's a long way from the
board yeah
absolutely that's
great and I think that's you know that's
the larger issue behind you know the
fundamental challenge of the 21st
century that we're pushing towards I
think is towards a global Consciousness
you know a global
citizenship which mediates between all
the various divisions and nationalisms
and factions religionism of of the of
History into into a much more
complex
uh not boundaryless but to some degree
boundaryless condition which doesn't
suffocate individuality M but definitely
recontextualizes it a different uh with
a different Force yeah yeah
absolutely what do you see as sort of
the ultimate applicability of this group
wisdom or Collective wisdom potential
that's
emerging so what do you see that that as
I have a lot of energy around that
question right because uh it has very
far-reaching
implications from everything from
uh uh Think Tank the the phenomenon of
think tanks and group dynamics for
augmenting
creativity uh for enhancing
creativity uh all all the way to
understanding a a new context for
understanding some of the Dynamics of
Social and cultural Evolution and
psychospiritual
evolution so I think for example uh I
think of an individual a person as in
from a reincarnational perspective as a
living walking group all right and so uh
they the more lifetimes a person has
experienced the more likely it is that
they're going going to have kind of more
intelligence more to show more empathy
more understanding more skills of
various things but in a sense they are a
living community of
themselves when you have a group of
people come together if if you're coming
together either for Spiritual purposes
or for uh social discussion or for
research purposes or Think Tank purposes
what this suggests is
if you can harmonize yourselves
psychologically socially and even
physiologically you can augment you can
stimulate and augment your own
functioning by by augmenting a a group
Consciousness a a group mind which can
have an uplifting and animating and
creativity enhancing effect on the
individual minds of those present and
and this I think has significant
implications for how we go about
learning at a more pedestrian level and
how we go about creating new knowledge
at a collective level it also has
profound
ramifications for understanding uh some
of the social dynamics involved if we
have if we have a classroom context and
this would generalize out to the culture
at large which is highly
divisive then we don't have this kind of
intelligence
enhancing empathy enhancing effect of a
unified field drawing us into a higher
state of sensitivity a higher state of
knowing if we do have uh a congealed
group if we have a good social process
for congealing a group then we actually
stimulate uh I believe a more potent
form of knowing a more potent kind of
Discovery because the group mind is like
a a more powerful transceiver that
connects the individuals to the Divine
mind so to speak even to the point
where we are clearly at a certain
evolutionary impass we need to break
through certain barriers in order to
intellectual barriers in order to solve
certain
major uh
technological uh questions and uh that
we have come to in physics in in The
Sciences which are really important for
environmental purposes coal Fusion
number of important unified field
Theory um I think it we're looking here
at a planet which if the planet
continues to be fragmented
politically uh
racially uh gender uh even fragmented in
terms of it in terms of speciesism
then that condition of of collective
fragmentation is preventing a
potentiation of our individual genius
where on the alternative if we move
towards greater integration greater
social cohesion greater inclusiveness in
medical care for example towards
political democracy so on so forth then
that would have the cumulative effect of
of potential literally potentiating the
performance of our individual
minds and and therefore making it easier
for us to have the
breakthroughs that would have profound
implications in
technology as well as the humanities and
the Arts but I'm thinking particularly
of the Sciences where we have a sense
that we're we're really up against some
real
major uh
barriers for solving some of the
uh uh technologies that we need to solve
for uh to really get a grip on some of
the invironmental issues we're dealing
with so I think to
understand the nonlocal quality of mind
has profound social
implications once we begin to understand
that how our mind functions not only how
comfortable it is with itself but how
creative it is how imaginative it is is
not simply a function of the individual
health the health of my individual mind
but is a function of the health of our
Collective mind then we have a vested
interest in the health of our Collective
mind and we have a vested interest in
the health of a in a healthy Society in
a healthy culture in a healthy Globe to
serve that
end cannot but have a rebounding effect
an uplifting effect on our
individual
well-being directly not indirectly and
not by virtue of not because of virtue
but directly because of morphic
resonance because of the nature of Mind
itself